docs: dedicated vmseries autoscale README for SWFW Hub (#294)
PaloAltoNetworks/terraform-azurerm-vmseries-modules: examples/dedicated_vmseries_and_autoscale/README.md

---
short_title: Dedicated Firewall Option with Autoscaling
type: refarch
show_in_hub: false
---
# Reference Architecture with Terraform: VM-Series in Azure, Centralized Architecture, Dedicated Inbound NGFW Option with Autoscaling

Palo Alto Networks produces several [validated reference architecture design and deployment documentation guides](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/resources/reference-architectures), which describe well-architected and tested deployments. When deploying VM-Series in a public cloud, the reference architectures guide users toward the best security outcomes, whilst reducing rollout time and avoiding common integration efforts.
The Terraform code presented here will deploy Palo Alto Networks VM-Series firewalls in Azure based on a centralized design with dedicated-inbound VM-Series with autoscaling(Virtual Machine Scale Sets); for a discussion of other options, please see the design guide from [the reference architecture guides](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/resources/reference-architectures).

> Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS) are used for autoscaling to run the Next Generation Firewalls, with custom data plane oriented metrics published by PanOS it is possible to adjust the number of firewall appliances to the current workload (data plane utilization). Since firewalls are added or removed automatically, they cannot be managed in a classic way. Therefore they are not assigned with public IP addresses. To ease licensing, management and updates a Panorama appliance is suggested. Deployment of a Panorama instance is not covered in this example, but a [dedicated one exists](../standalone_panorama/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS) are used for autoscaling to run the Next Generation Firewalls, with custom data plane oriented metrics published by PAN-OS it is possible to adjust the number of firewall appliances to the current workload (data plane utilization). Since firewalls are added or removed automatically, they cannot be managed in a classic way. Therefore they are not assigned with public IP addresses. To ease licensing, management and updates a Panorama appliance is suggested. Deployment of a Panorama instance is not covered in this example, but a [dedicated one exists](../standalone_panorama/README.md).
```
